.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, before:

Please pick a meaningful title for your pull request using sentence case.

Do not overuse punctuation in the title like `(chore):`. If it is helpful feel free to start with a project name, though, like `ProjectX: Implement some feature`.

# Title instructions above.

Enter a succinct description of what is achieved by the PR. Ideally describe why the change is being made.

Bullet points like

- Implements aspect X
- Leaves out feature Y because of A
- Improves performance by B
- Improves accessibility by C

really help with making this more readable.

Fixes/Closes/Related-to #1 (enter issue number, except in rare cases where none exists).

It is also helpful to add an emoji before the commit message to identify the kind of work done on a single commit. See the following suggestions below:

- 🐛 - `:bug:` Bug fix
- ✨ - `:sparkles:` New feature
- ✅ - `:white_check_mark:` Tests
- 🔥 - `:fire:` P0
- 🚀 - `:rocket:` Performance improvements
- 🖍️ - `:crayon:` CSS / Styling
- ♿ - `:wheelchair:` Accessibility
- 🌐 - `:globe_with_meridians:` i18n (Internationalization)
- 📖 - `:book:` Documentation
- ♻️ - `:recycle:` Refactoring (like moving around code w/o any changes)
- 🏗️ - `:building_construction:` Infrastructure / Tooling / Builds / CI
- ⏪ - `:rewind:` Revert
- 🚮 - `:put_litter_in_its_place:` Deleting code

Commit message:

Make the AMP PR template more readable

.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, after:

Instructions:

- Pick a meaningful title for your pull request. (Use sentence case.)
  - Prefix the title with an emoji to identify what is being done. (Copy-paste from the list below.)
  - Do not overuse punctuation in the title (like `(chore):`).
  - If it is helpful, use a simple prefix (like `ProjectX: Implement some feature`).
- Enter a succinct description that says why the PR is necessary, and what it does.
  - Mention the GitHub issue that is being addressed by the pull request.
  - The keywords `Fixes`, `Closes`, or `Resolves` followed the issue number will automatically close the issue.

Example of a good description:

- Implements aspect X
- Leaves out feature Y because of A
- Improves performance by B
- Improves accessibility by C

Emojis for categorizing pull requests:

✨ New feature (`:sparkles:`)
🐛 Bug fix (`:bug:`)
🔥 P0 fix (`:fire:`)
✅ Tests (`:white_check_mark:`)
🚀 Performance improvements (`:rocket:`)
🖍 CSS / Styling (`:crayon:`)
♿ Accessibility (`:wheelchair:`)
🌐 Internationalization (`:globe_with_meridians:`)
📖 Documentation (`:book:`)
🏗 Infrastructure / Tooling / Builds / CI (`:building_construction:`)
⏪ Reverting a previous change (`:rewind:`)
♻️ Refactoring (like moving around code w/o any changes) (`:recycle:`)
🚮 Deleting code (`:put_litter_in_its_place:`)
