SUPPORT.md, before:

<!-- DO NOT RENAME OR REMOVE THIS FILE - it's hosted here https://amp.dev/support/ -->

# Getting Support

There are many ways to get help for questions and issues related to AMP:

**Need help with AMP?**

If you are looking for help to get started using AMP on your site or you are having issues using AMP, consult these resources:

- [Official documentation](https://amp.dev/documentation/guides-and-tutorials/) with guides and tutorials to help you learn about AMP.
- [Hands-on samples and demos](https://amp.dev/documentation/examples/) for using AMP components.
- [Pre-styled templates and components](https://amp.dev/documentation/templates/) that you can use to create styled AMP sites from scratch.
- [AMP tools](https://amp.dev/documentation/tools) helping you get started with building AMP pages.
- [AMP supported browsers](https://amp.dev/support/faq/supported-browsers) to learn which browsers support AMP.
- [Stack Overflow](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/amp-html) is our recommended way to find answers to questions about AMP; since members of the AMP Project community regularly monitor Stack Overflow you will probably receive the fastest response to your questions there.
- For AMP on Google Search questions or issues, please use [Google's AMP forum](https://goo.gl/utQ1KZ).
- To check the status of AMP serving and its related services, see the [AMP Status](https://status.ampproject.org/) page.

**Found a bug? Suggest a feature?**

If you encounter a bug in AMP or have a feature request for AMP, see [Reporting issues with AMP](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#reporting-issues-with-amp) for information on filing an issue or requesting features.

**Contributing to AMP?**

[Contributing to AMP HTML](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#ongoing-participation) is a great place to find out how you can make contributions to the AMP open source project and how you can get help if you run into questions when contributing to AMP.

Commit message:

Include Slack channel in Support page

SUPPORT.md, after:

<!-- DO NOT RENAME OR REMOVE THIS FILE - it's hosted here https://amp.dev/support/ -->

# Getting Support

There are many ways to get help for questions and issues related to AMP:

**Need help with AMP?**

If you are looking for help to get started using AMP on your site or you are having issues using AMP, consult these resources:

- [Official documentation](https://amp.dev/documentation/guides-and-tutorials/) with guides and tutorials to help you learn about AMP.
- [Hands-on samples and demos](https://amp.dev/documentation/examples/) for using AMP components.
- [Pre-styled templates and components](https://amp.dev/documentation/templates/) that you can use to create styled AMP sites from scratch.
- [AMP tools](https://amp.dev/documentation/tools) helping you get started with building AMP pages.
- [AMP supported browsers](https://amp.dev/support/faq/supported-browsers) to learn which browsers support AMP.
- [Stack Overflow](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/amp-html) is our recommended way to find answers to questions about AMP. Since members of the AMP Project community regularly monitor Stack Overflow, you will probably receive the fastest response to your questions there.
- [The AMP Slack channel](https://amphtml.slack.com) for discussions with other developers and the AMP team. [Click here](https://bit.ly/amp-slack-signup) to sign up.
- For AMP on Google Search questions or issues, please use [Google's AMP forum](https://goo.gl/utQ1KZ).
- To check the status of AMP serving and its related services, see the [AMP Status](https://status.ampproject.org/) page.

**Found a bug? Suggest a feature?**

If you encounter a bug in AMP or have a feature request for AMP, see [Reporting issues with AMP](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#reporting-issues-with-amp) for information on filing an issue or requesting features.

**Contributing to AMP?**

[Contributing to AMP HTML](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#ongoing-participation) is a great place to find out how you can make contributions to the AMP open source project and how you can get help if you run into questions when contributing to AMP.
