extensions/amp-lightbox-gallery/amp-lightbox-gallery.md, before:

---
$category@: layout
formats:
  - websites
  - ads
teaser:
  text: Provides a "lightbox” experience. Upon user interaction, a UI component expands to fill the viewport until it is closed by the user.
---

<!---
Copyright 2018 The AMP HTML Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS-IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# amp-lightbox-gallery

## Usage

The `amp-lightbox-gallery` component provides a "lightbox" experience for AMP
components (e.g., `amp-img`, `amp-carousel`). When the user interacts with the
AMP element, a UI component expands to fill the viewport until it is closed by
the user. Currently, only images are supported.

To use `amp-lightbox-gallery`, ensure the required script is included in your
`<head>` section, then add the `lightbox` attribute on an `<amp-img>` or
`<amp-carousel>` element.

[tip type="read-on"]

For showing individual images in a lightbox, there's also the
[`<amp-image-lightbox>`](../amp-image-lightbox/amp-image-lightbox.md)
component. To display other types of elements in a lightbox, use
[`<amp-lightbox>`](../amp-lightbox/amp-lightbox.md).

[/tip]

### Display a lightbox with `<amp-img>`

Tapping on any `<amp-img>` opens the image in a lightbox gallery. The lightbox
gallery does image-handling (e.g., zoom and pan), enables swiping to navigate
between images, and offers a thumbnail gallery view for browsing all picture
thumbnails in a grid.

```html
<amp-img src="cat.jpg" width="100" height="100" lightbox></amp-img>
<amp-img src="dog.jpg" width="100" height="100" lightbox></amp-img>
<amp-img src="bird.jpg" width="100" height="100" lightbox></amp-img>
```

### Display a lightbox with `<amp-carousel>`

You can add the `lightbox` attribute on an `<amp-carousel>` to lightbox all of
its children. Currently, the `<amp-lightbox-gallery>` component only supports
carousels containing `<amp-img>` as children. As you navigate through the
carousel items in the lightbox, the original carousel slides are synchronized so
that when the lightbox is closed, the user ends up on the same slide as they
were originally on. Currently, only the `type='slides'` carousel is supported.

```html
<amp-carousel
  lightbox
  width="1600"
  height="900"
  layout="responsive"
  type="slides"
>
  <amp-img src="image1" width="200" height="100"></amp-img>
  <amp-img src="image1" width="200" height="100"></amp-img>
  <amp-img src="image1" width="200" height="100"></amp-img>
</amp-carousel>
```

### Add captions

Optionally, you can specify a caption for each element in the lightbox. These
fields are automatically read and displayed by the `<amp-lightbox-gallery>` in
the following order of priority:

- `figcaption` (if the lightboxed element is the child of a figure)
- `aria-describedby`
- `alt`
- `aria-label`
- `aria-labelledby`

In the following example, `<amp-lightbox-gallery>` displays the `figcaption`
value as its description, showing "Toront's CN tower was ....".

```html
<figure>
  <amp-img
    id="hero-img"
    lightbox="toronto"
    src="https://picsum.photos/1600/900?image=1075"
    layout="responsive"
    width="1600"
    height="900"
    alt="Picture of CN tower."
  >
  </amp-img>
  <figcaption class="image">
    Toronto's CN tower was built in 1976 and was the tallest free-standing
    structure until 2007.
  </figcaption>
</figure>
```

In the following example, `<amp-lightbox-gallery>` displays the `alt` value as
its description, showing "Picture of CN tower".

```html
<amp-img
  id="hero-img"
  lightbox="toronto"
  src="https://picsum.photos/1600/900?image=1075"
  layout="responsive"
  width="1600"
  height="900"
  alt="Picture of CN tower"
>
</amp-img>
```

### Implement thumbnail previews

Lightboxed items have a thumbnail gallery view. You can optionally specify a
thumbnail item for your lightboxed element via the attribute
`lightbox-thumbnail-id` that references the `id` of an `<amp-img>` element with
`layout="nodisplay"`.

```html
<amp-youtube
  width="480"
  height="270"
  layout="responsive"
  data-videoid="lBTCB7yLs8Y"
  lightbox-thumbnail-id="my-thumbnail-img"
>
</amp-youtube>

<amp-img
  id="my-thumbnail-img"
  width="200"
  height="200"
  layout="nodisplay"
  src="https://picsum.photos/200/200?image=1074"
>
</amp-img>
```

If no thumbnail is specified, `<amp-img>` elements will be cropped per
`object-fit: cover`, `<amp-video>` will use the image `src` specified in its
`poster` attribute, and placeholder images will be used for lightboxed elements
that have one.

## Actions

### `open`

Opens the lightbox gallery. Can be triggered by tapping another element, if you
specify the image `id`: `on="tap:amp-lightbox-gallery.open(id='image-id')"`.

## Analytics

To track usage of `amp-lightbox-gallery`, please use one of the following
analytics events:

### `lightboxOpened`

This event tracks when the lightbox is opened when the user clicks on a
lightboxed `<amp-img>`.

You can track this event using the following code snippet:

```html
<amp-analytics>
  <script type="application/json">
    {
      "requests": {
        "open": "https://foo.com/open"
      },
      "triggers": {
        "trackLightboxOpened": {
          "on": "lightboxOpened",
          "request": "open"
        }
      }
    }
  </script>
</amp-analytics>
```

### `thumbnailsViewToggled`

This event tracks when the thumbnails view is triggered by clicking on the
trigger when the user is in the lightbox view.

You can track this event using the following code snippet:

```html
<amp-analytics>
  <script type="application/json">
    {
      "requests": {
        "thumb": "https://foo.com/thumb"
      },
      "triggers": {
        "trackThumbnailsViewToggled": {
          "on": "thumbnailsViewToggled",
          "request": "thumb"
        }
      }
    }
  </script>
</amp-analytics>
```

### `descriptionOverflowToggled`

This event tracks when the user toggles the description by clicking on the
description to expand/collapse it, tracking engagement with the description for
the lightboxed image.

You can track this event using the following code snippet:

```html
<amp-analytics>
  <script type="application/json">
    {
      "requests": {
        "descOverflow": "https://foo.com/descOverflow"
      },
      "triggers": {
        "trackDescriptionOverflowed": {
          "on": "descriptionOverflowToggled",
          "request": "descOverflow"
        }
      }
    }
  </script>
</amp-analytics>
```

## Validation

See [`amp-image-lightbox-gallery` rules](validator-amp-lightbox-gallery.protoascii)
in the AMP validator specification.

Commit message:

Added amp-lightbox-gallery-caption class for styling

extensions/amp-lightbox-gallery/amp-lightbox-gallery.md, after:

---
$category@: layout
formats:
  - websites
  - ads
teaser:
  text: Provides a "lightbox” experience. Upon user interaction, a UI component expands to fill the viewport until it is closed by the user.
---

<!---
Copyright 2018 The AMP HTML Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS-IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# amp-lightbox-gallery

## Usage

The `amp-lightbox-gallery` component provides a "lightbox" experience for AMP
components (e.g., `amp-img`, `amp-carousel`). When the user interacts with the
AMP element, a UI component expands to fill the viewport until it is closed by
the user. Currently, only images are supported.

To use `amp-lightbox-gallery`, ensure the required script is included in your
`<head>` section, then add the `lightbox` attribute on an `<amp-img>` or
`<amp-carousel>` element.

[tip type="read-on"]

For showing individual images in a lightbox, there's also the
[`<amp-image-lightbox>`](../amp-image-lightbox/amp-image-lightbox.md)
component. To display other types of elements in a lightbox, use
[`<amp-lightbox>`](../amp-lightbox/amp-lightbox.md).

[/tip]

### Display a lightbox with `<amp-img>`

Tapping on any `<amp-img>` opens the image in a lightbox gallery. The lightbox
gallery does image-handling (e.g., zoom and pan), enables swiping to navigate
between images, and offers a thumbnail gallery view for browsing all picture
thumbnails in a grid.

```html
<amp-img src="cat.jpg" width="100" height="100" lightbox></amp-img>
<amp-img src="dog.jpg" width="100" height="100" lightbox></amp-img>
<amp-img src="bird.jpg" width="100" height="100" lightbox></amp-img>
```

### Display a lightbox with `<amp-carousel>`

You can add the `lightbox` attribute on an `<amp-carousel>` to lightbox all of
its children. Currently, the `<amp-lightbox-gallery>` component only supports
carousels containing `<amp-img>` as children. As you navigate through the
carousel items in the lightbox, the original carousel slides are synchronized so
that when the lightbox is closed, the user ends up on the same slide as they
were originally on. Currently, only the `type='slides'` carousel is supported.

```html
<amp-carousel
  lightbox
  width="1600"
  height="900"
  layout="responsive"
  type="slides"
>
  <amp-img src="image1" width="200" height="100"></amp-img>
  <amp-img src="image1" width="200" height="100"></amp-img>
  <amp-img src="image1" width="200" height="100"></amp-img>
</amp-carousel>
```

### Add captions

Optionally, you can specify a caption for each element in the lightbox. These
fields are automatically read and displayed by the `<amp-lightbox-gallery>` in
the following order of priority:

- `figcaption` (if the lightboxed element is the child of a figure)
- `aria-describedby`
- `alt`
- `aria-label`
- `aria-labelledby`

In the following example, `<amp-lightbox-gallery>` displays the `figcaption`
value as its description, showing "Toront's CN tower was ....".

```html
<figure>
  <amp-img
    id="hero-img"
    lightbox="toronto"
    src="https://picsum.photos/1600/900?image=1075"
    layout="responsive"
    width="1600"
    height="900"
    alt="Picture of CN tower."
  >
  </amp-img>
  <figcaption class="image">
    Toronto's CN tower was built in 1976 and was the tallest free-standing
    structure until 2007.
  </figcaption>
</figure>
```

In the following example, `<amp-lightbox-gallery>` displays the `alt` value as
its description, showing "Picture of CN tower".

```html
<amp-img
  id="hero-img"
  lightbox="toronto"
  src="https://picsum.photos/1600/900?image=1075"
  layout="responsive"
  width="1600"
  height="900"
  alt="Picture of CN tower"
>
</amp-img>
```

### Implement thumbnail previews

Lightboxed items have a thumbnail gallery view. You can optionally specify a
thumbnail item for your lightboxed element via the attribute
`lightbox-thumbnail-id` that references the `id` of an `<amp-img>` element with
`layout="nodisplay"`.

```html
<amp-youtube
  width="480"
  height="270"
  layout="responsive"
  data-videoid="lBTCB7yLs8Y"
  lightbox-thumbnail-id="my-thumbnail-img"
>
</amp-youtube>

<amp-img
  id="my-thumbnail-img"
  width="200"
  height="200"
  layout="nodisplay"
  src="https://picsum.photos/200/200?image=1074"
>
</amp-img>
```

If no thumbnail is specified, `<amp-img>` elements will be cropped per
`object-fit: cover`, `<amp-video>` will use the image `src` specified in its
`poster` attribute, and placeholder images will be used for lightboxed elements
that have one.

## Styling

You can style the `amp-lightbox-gallery-caption` component with standard CSS. Some of the
properties that can be styled are `font-size` and `color`.

## Actions

### `open`

Opens the lightbox gallery. Can be triggered by tapping another element, if you
specify the image `id`: `on="tap:amp-lightbox-gallery.open(id='image-id')"`.

## Analytics

To track usage of `amp-lightbox-gallery`, please use one of the following
analytics events:

### `lightboxOpened`

This event tracks when the lightbox is opened when the user clicks on a
lightboxed `<amp-img>`.

You can track this event using the following code snippet:

```html
<amp-analytics>
  <script type="application/json">
    {
      "requests": {
        "open": "https://foo.com/open"
      },
      "triggers": {
        "trackLightboxOpened": {
          "on": "lightboxOpened",
          "request": "open"
        }
      }
    }
  </script>
</amp-analytics>
```

### `thumbnailsViewToggled`

This event tracks when the thumbnails view is triggered by clicking on the
trigger when the user is in the lightbox view.

You can track this event using the following code snippet:

```html
<amp-analytics>
  <script type="application/json">
    {
      "requests": {
        "thumb": "https://foo.com/thumb"
      },
      "triggers": {
        "trackThumbnailsViewToggled": {
          "on": "thumbnailsViewToggled",
          "request": "thumb"
        }
      }
    }
  </script>
</amp-analytics>
```

### `descriptionOverflowToggled`

This event tracks when the user toggles the description by clicking on the
description to expand/collapse it, tracking engagement with the description for
the lightboxed image.

You can track this event using the following code snippet:

```html
<amp-analytics>
  <script type="application/json">
    {
      "requests": {
        "descOverflow": "https://foo.com/descOverflow"
      },
      "triggers": {
        "trackDescriptionOverflowed": {
          "on": "descriptionOverflowToggled",
          "request": "descOverflow"
        }
      }
    }
  </script>
</amp-analytics>
```

## Validation

See [`amp-image-lightbox-gallery` rules](validator-amp-lightbox-gallery.protoascii)
in the AMP validator specification.
