---
$category@: ads-analytics
formats:
  - websites
---

# amp-social-share

## Usage

The `amp-social-share` component displays a social share button for social platforms.

{% call callout('Important', type='caution') %}
Currently, none of the buttons generated by `amp-social-share` (including those for the pre-configured providers) have a label/accessible name that is exposed to assistive technologies (such as screen readers). Make sure to include an `aria-label` with a descriptive label, as otherwise these controls will just be announced as unlabelled "button" elements.
{% endcall %}

**Example: Basic social share button**

The share button guesses some defaults for you for some pre-configured providers. It assumes that the current document canonical url is the URL you want to share and the page title is the text you want to share.

```html
<amp-social-share
  type="twitter"
  aria-label="Share on Twitter"
></amp-social-share>
```

**Example: Passing parameters**

When you want to pass parameters to the share endpoint, you can specify `data-param-<attribute>` that will be appended to the share endpoint.

```html
<amp-social-share
  type="linkedin"
  width="60"
  height="44"
  data-param-text="Hello world"
  data-param-url="https://example.com/"
  aria-label="Share on LinkedIn"
>
</amp-social-share>
```

Linkedin is one of the pre-configured providers, so you do not need to provide the `data-share-endpoint` attribute.

### Pre-configured providers

The `amp-social-share` component provides [some pre-configured providers](amp-social-share-config.js) that know their sharing endpoints as well as some default parameters.

<table>
  <tr>
    <th class="col-twenty">Provider</th>
    <th class="col-twenty">Type</th>
    <th>Parameters</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2016/10/navigator-share">Web Share API</a> (triggers OS share dialog)</td>
    <td><code>system</code></td>
    <td>
      <ul>
        <li><code>data-param-text</code>: optional, defaults to: "Current page title"</li>
        <li><code>data-mode</code>: optional, if set to <code>replace</code>, all other share options are removed.</li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Email</td>
    <td><code>email</code></td>
    <td>
      <ul>
        <li><code>data-param-subject</code>: optional, defaults to: Current page title</li>
        <li><code>data-param-body</code>: optional, defaults to: <code>rel=canonical</code> URL</li>
        <li><code>data-param-recipient</code>: optional, defaults to: '' (empty string)</li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Facebook</td>
    <td><code>facebook</code></td>
    <td>
      <ul>
       <li><code>data-param-app_id</code>: <strong>required</strong>, defaults to: none. This parameter is the Facebook <code>app_id</code> that's required for the <a href="https://developers.facebook.com/docs/sharing/reference/share-dialog">Facebook Share dialog</a>.</li>
        <li><code>data-param-href</code>: optional, defaults to: <code>rel=canonical</code> URL</li>
        <li><code>data-param-quote</code>: optional. Can be used to share a quote or text.</li>
        </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>LinkedIn</td>
    <td><code>linkedin</code></td>
    <td>
      <ul>
        <li><code>data-param-url</code>: optional, defaults to: <code>rel=canonical</code> URL</li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Pinterest</td>
    <td><code>pinterest</code></td>
    <td>
      <ul>
        <li><code>data-param-media</code>: optional (but highly recommended to be set), defaults to: none. Url for the media to be shared on Pinterest. If not set, the end user will be requested to upload a media by Pinterest.</li>
        <li><code>data-param-url</code>: optional, defaults to: <code>rel=canonical</code> URL</li>
        <li><code>data-param-description</code>: optional, defaults to: Current page title</li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Tumblr</td>
    <td><code>tumblr</code></td>
    <td>
      <ul>
        <li><code>data-param-url</code>: optional, defaults to: <code>rel=canonical</code> URL</li>
        <li><code>data-param-text</code>: optional, defaults to: Current page title</li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Twitter</td>
    <td><code>twitter</code></td>
    <td>
      <ul>
        <li><code>data-param-url</code>: optional, defaults to: <code>rel=canonical</code> URL</li>
        <li><code>data-param-text</code>: optional, defaults to: Current page title</li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Whatsapp</td>
    <td><code>whatsapp</code></td>
    <td>
      <ul>
        <li><code>data-param-text</code>: optional, defaults to: "Current page title - current page URL"</li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>LINE</td>
    <td><code>line</code></td>
    <td>
      <ul>
        <li><code>data-param-url</code>: optional, defaults to: <code>rel=canonical</code> URL</li>
        <li><code>data-param-text</code>: optional, defaults to: Current page title</li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>SMS</td>
    <td><code>sms</code></td>
    <td>
      <ul>
        <li><code>data-param-body</code>: optional, defaults to: <code>rel=title - rel=canonical</code> URL</li></ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

### Non-configured providers

In addition to pre-configured providers, you can use non-configured providers by specifying additional attributes in the `amp-social-share` component.

**Example: Creating a share button for a non-configured provider**

The following example creates a share button through Facebook Messenger by setting the `data-share-endpoint` attribute to the correct endpoint for the Facebook Messenger custom protocol.

```html
<amp-social-share
  type="facebookmessenger"
  data-share-endpoint="fb-messenger://share"
  data-param-text="Check out this article: TITLE - CANONICAL_URL"
  aria-label="Share on Facebook Messenger"
>
</amp-social-share>
```

As these providers are not pre-configured, you'll need to create the appropriate button image and styles for the provider.

### Variable Substitution

You can use [global AMP variables substitution](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/main/docs/spec/amp-var-substitutions.md) in the `<amp-social-share>` element. In the example below, `TITLE` is substituted with the page title and `CANONICAL_URL` with the document's canonical URL.

```html
<amp-social-share
  type="whatsapp"
  data-param-text="Check out this article: TITLE - CANONICAL_URL"
>
</amp-social-share>
```

## Attributes

### type (required)

Selects a provider type. This is required for both pre-configured and non-configured providers.

### data-target

Specifies the target in which to open the target. The default is `_blank` for all cases other than email/SMS on iOS, in which case the target is set to `_top`.

Please note that we only suggest using this override for email.

### data-share-endpoint

This attribute is required for non-configured providers.

Some popular providers have pre-configured share endpoints. For details, see the Pre-configured Providers section. For non-configured providers, you'll need to specify the share endpoint.

### data-param-\*

All `data-param-*` prefixed attributes are turned into URL parameters and passed to the share endpoint.

### aria-label

By default, the `aria-label` attribute will be populated with `Share by type` where 'type' is the `type` attribute provided to the component. If a non-empty value is passed in to `aria-label` it will overwrite the default value.

## Styling

### Default Styles

By default, `amp-social-share` includes some popular pre-configured providers. Buttons for these providers are styled with the provider's official color and logo. The default width is 60px, and the default height is 44px.

{% call callout('Tip', type='success') %}
Visit [AMP Start](https://ampstart.com/components#links-and-sharing) for responsive, pre-styled share links that you can use in your AMP pages.
{% endcall %}

### Custom Styles

Sometimes you want to provide your own style. You can simply override the provided styles like the following:

```css
amp-social-share[type='twitter'] {
  background: red;
  background-image: url(datauri:svg/myownsvgicon);
}
```

When customizing the style of an `amp-social-share` icon please ensure that the customized icon meets the branding guidelines set out by the provider (e.g Twitter, Facebook, etc.)

## Accessibility

### Indication of focus

The `amp-social-share` element defaults to a blue outline as a visible focus indicator. It also defaults `tabindex=0` making it easy for a user to follow along as he or she tabs through multiple `amp-social-share` elements used together on a page.

The default focus indicator is achieved with the following CSS rule-set.

```css
amp-social-share:focus {
  outline: #0389ff solid 2px;
  outline-offset: 2px;
}
```

The default focus indicator can be overwritten by defining CSS styles for focus and including them within a `style` tag on an AMP HTML page. In the example below, the first CSS rule-set removes the focus indicator on all `amp-social-share` elements by setting the `outline` property to `none`. The second rule-set specifies a red outline (instead of the default blue) and also sets the `outline-offset` to be `3px` for all `amp-social-share` elements with the class `custom-focus`.

```css
amp-social-share:focus{
  outline: none;
}

amp-social-share.custom-focus:focus {
  outline: red solid 2px;
  outline-offset: 3px;
}
```

With these CSS rules, `amp-social-share` elements would not show the visible focus indicator unless they included the class `custom-focus` in which case they would have the red outlined indicator.

### Color contrast

Note that `amp-social-share` with a `type` value of `twitter`, `whatsapp`, or `line` will display a button with a foreground/background color combination that falls below the 3:1 threshold recommended for non-text content defined in [WCAG 2.1 SC 1.4.11 Non-text Contrast](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/non-text-contrast.html).

Without sufficient contrast, content can be difficult to perceive and therefore difficult to identify. In extreme cases, content with low contrast may not be visible at all to people with colour perception impairments. In the case of the above share buttons, users may not be able to appropriately perceive/understand what the share controls are, what service they relate to.

## Validation

See [amp-social-share rules](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/main/extensions/amp-social-share/validator-amp-social-share.protoascii) in the AMP validator specification.
