.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/intent-to-implement--i2i-.md, before:

---
name: Intent-to-implement (I2I)
about: Proposes a significant change/update to AMP. See https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md.
title: 'I2I: <your feature/change>'
labels: INTENT TO IMPLEMENT
assignees: ''

---

<!--
Replace/remove all of the text in brackets, including this text.

See https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md for help determining if you need to file an I2I for your change/fix, instructions on filling out this I2I template and how to get help if you have questions. Note that If you are implementing a minor change/fix, you likely do not need to file this I2I.
-->

## Summary
<!--
Provide a brief description of the feature/change you are planning on implementing.
-->

## Design document
<!--
Provide a link to your design document once you have one. You do not need a design document to file this I2I.
-->

## Motivation
<!--
Explain why AMP needs this change. It may be useful to describe what AMP developers/users are forced to do without it. When possible, include links to back up your claims.
-->

A clear and concise description of any alternative solutions or features you've considered.

## Additional context
<!--
Add any other information that may help people understand your I2I.
-->


<!--
Add anyone to this cc line that you want to notify about this I2I, including a reviewer once you have found one. See https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md for help in finding a reviewer.
-->
/cc @ampproject/wg-approvers

Commit message:

add suggestion to sign CLA

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/intent-to-implement--i2i-.md, after:

---
name: Intent-to-implement (I2I)
about: Proposes a significant change/update to AMP. See https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md.
title: 'I2I: <your feature/change>'
labels: INTENT TO IMPLEMENT
assignees: ''

---

<!--
Replace/remove all of the text in brackets, including this text.

See https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md for help determining if you need to file an I2I for your change/fix, instructions on filling out this I2I template and how to get help if you have questions. Note that If you are implementing a minor change/fix, you likely do not need to file this I2I.

If you haven't already done so, sign the Contributor License Agreement (CLA) as soon as possible to avoid delays merging your code. A signed CLA is not necessary to submit this I2I or to send a pull request, but it will be needed before your code can be merged. See https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/contributing/contributing-code.md#contributor-license-agreement for more information on CLAs.
-->

## Summary
<!--
Provide a brief description of the feature/change you are planning on implementing.
-->

## Design document
<!--
Provide a link to your design document once you have one. You do not need a design document to file this I2I.
-->

## Motivation
<!--
Explain why AMP needs this change. It may be useful to describe what AMP developers/users are forced to do without it. When possible, include links to back up your claims.
-->

A clear and concise description of any alternative solutions or features you've considered.

## Additional context
<!--
Add any other information that may help people understand your I2I.
-->


<!--
Add anyone to this cc line that you want to notify about this I2I, including a reviewer once you have found one. See https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md for help in finding a reviewer.
-->
/cc @ampproject/wg-approvers
