## Linker ID Receiving
### Overview
This document illustrates in detail how the linker param is constructed, so that analytics vendors or publishers implementing their own solutions are able to ingest this parameter on the destination page.

### Format
The linker param will be formatted in the following structure:

`<paramName>=<version>*<checkSum>*<idName1>*<idValue1>*<idName2>*<idValue2>...`

The asterisk `*` is used to seperate each piece of data.

- `paramName` - Name of parameter given in configuration.
- `version` - The version of the linker used to create the param.
- `checkSum` - A unique value generated by the linker. Details about how this value is generated are [here](#checksum)
- `idName1*idValue1` This is where any key value pairs in the `ids` object will be included. The values will be "URL Safe" base64 encoded, while the keys will remain in their raw form.

#### Example
Take this example [linker configuration](./linker-id-forwarding.md):
```javascript
"linkers": {
  "linker1" : {
    "ids" : {
      "cid": "CLIENT_ID(_ga)",
      "uid" "QUERY_PARAM(uid)",
    }
    "proxyOnly" : false,
    "enabled": true,
  }
}
```

The above config would generate a parameter similar to the following: `linker1=1*5epghs*cid*YW1wLVNsQjJnZmlpXzExZFdxdFNyM3pUNHc.*uid*MTIzNA..`.

There are several parts to this url parameter. First, the name of the param `linker1` matches the name from the configuration above. The param value contains several pieces of data seperated by the `*`delimiter.
- The first value `1` indicates the version number of the linker used.
- The second value `5epghs` is a [checksum](#checksum) generated by the linker.
- After that, the two key value pairs given in the `ids` object. The linker has resolved any macros that may exist, base64 encoded them in a url-safe format, and then appended them to the parameter. This results in `cid*YW1wLVNsQjJnZmlpXzExZFdxdFNyM3pUNHc.`, and `uid*MTIzNA..`.

#### Checksum
The checksum is a unique value generated by the linker that can be used to prevent accidental Id sharing. Publishers and/or anayltics vendors can generate this checksum on the destination page and ensure that it matches. Since this checksum contains a time input, a common practice is to check it against a few values generated by adding or subtracting a time tolerance.

It is generated from the following formula.

`base36(CRC32(fingerprint*timestampRoundedInMin*key1*val1*key2*val2...))`

- `fingerprint` - A semi-unique value for page visitors. Generated by using `User Agent + * + timezone + * + language`.
- `minutesSinceEpoch` - Time since epoch. Floored to minute resolution.
- `key1...` - Each key value pair that will be passed along. The key will remain in its raw form, while the value will be url-safe base64 endcoded.
- `CRC32` - A standard CRC32 implementation.
- `base36` - The result of the CRC32 algorithm is base36 encoded.

You can find all the code for our implementaion in the [linker.js](./0.1/linker.js)

#### Test Cases
If you are implementing your own logic to verify these checksums, please ensure that you are using our test vectors located in [test-linker.js](./0.1/test/test-linker.js)


### Receiving Linker Params on AMP Pages

The `<amp-analytics>`'s `cookies` feature can be used to extract information from the document url and write to the origin domain.

#### Configuration

A `cookies` example configuration looks like
```
'cookies': {
  'enabled': true,
  'cookieName1': {
    'value': 'QUERY_PARAM(example)',
  },
  'cookieName2': {
    'value': 'LINKER_PARAM(exampleParamName, exampleIdName)',
  },
}
```

The `enabled` value can be used to override default vendor settings.

##### Cookie Names
Each key within the `cookies` config object defines the cookie name. It's value needs to be an object containing a single key-value pair. That key should be named `value`, and its value should be the macro that determines the information stored in the cookie.

Note: The following key values are reserved, and cannot be used as cookie names. They are ['`referrerDomains`', '`enabled`', '`cookiePath`', '`cookieMaxAge`', '`cookieSecure`', '`cookieDomain`'].

##### Cookie Values
Each cookie to write is defined by an object, where the value is defined by the required `value` field.

Two macros are supported for the `value` field. [`QUERY_PARAM`](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/spec/amp-var-substitutions.md#query-parameter) and [`LINKER_PARAM`](#linker-param).

If there's error resoving the value, or the value is resolved to empty string. Nothing will be written to the cookie.

##### LINKER PARAM
`LINKER_PARAM` takes two arguments, the `name` and the `value`. It will verify the checksum and read the `idName1*idValue1` key value pair from the linker param. The `value` ('idValue1' here) will be returned.

