extensions/amp-access/0.1/iframe-api/README.md, before:

<!---
Copyright 2018 The AMP HTML Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS-IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# amp-access-iframe-api

The access iframe is an experimental implementation of access protocol. It requires "amp-access-iframe" experiment turned on in the AMP document for it to work.

The `AmpAccessIframeApi` is the entry point for access iframe implementation. As its main parameter it requires an instance of `AccessController`, which simply implements all methods of access protocol such as `authorize` and `pingback`.

The document's access configuration would use the "iframe" type. For instance:

```
<script id="amp-access" type="application/json">
  {
    "type": "iframe",
    "iframeSrc": "https://example.org/access-controller-iframe",
    "iframeVars": [
      "READER_ID",
      "CANONICAL_URL",
      "AMPDOC_URL",
      "SOURCE_URL",
      "DOCUMENT_REFERRER"
    ]
  }
</script>
```

The instrumentation would normally look like this:

```
/** Implements AccessController interface */
class Controller {
  connect(origin, protocol, config) {
    // Initialize the controller.
    // Important! Ensure that the "origin" is an acceptable value.
  }

  authorize() {
    // Return a promise that will yield the authorization response.
  }

  pingback() {
    // Handle the "impression" event.
  }
}

var iframeApi = new AmpAccessIframeApi(new Controller());
iframeApi.connect();
```

## Connect method

The `connect` method should perform two main tasks:

1. Ensure that the parent document is the right document by checking the origin.
2. Initialize the iframe.

The `config` argument in the `connect` method will contain the original document config with `iframeVars` replace with the map of resolved AMP variables. See [Access URL Variables](../../amp-access.md#access-url-variables) for more details. For instance, for the example above the `config` value could look like this:

```
{
  "type": "iframe",
  "iframeSrc": "https://example.org/access-controller-iframe",
  "iframeVars": {
    "READER_ID": "1234abd456",
    "CANONICAL_URL": "https://example.org/doc1",
    "AMPDOC_URL": "https://example-org.cdn.ampproject.org/doc1.amp",
    "SOURCE_URL": "https://example.org/doc1.amp",
    "DOCUMENT_REFERRER": "https://other.com"
  }
}
```


## Authorize method

The `authorize` method checks whether the user should be able to access this document. It's expected to be in the following format:

```
{
  granted: true/false,
  data: {},
}
```

Where:
 - `granted` field is a true/false boolean field. It returns true when the document is accessible.
 - `data` is an open-ended JSON structure that can be used for access expressions.


## Pingback method

The `pingback` method is optional. If specified, it can implement impression event. The main purpose of this method is metering implementation.

Commit message:

Access iframe: one-behind semantics and fallback

extensions/amp-access/0.1/iframe-api/README.md, after:

<!---
Copyright 2018 The AMP HTML Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS-IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# amp-access-iframe-api

The access iframe is an experimental implementation of access protocol. It requires "amp-access-iframe" experiment turned on in the AMP document for it to work.

The `AmpAccessIframeApi` is the entry point for access iframe implementation. As its main parameter it requires an instance of `AccessController`, which simply implements all methods of access protocol such as `authorize` and `pingback`.

The document's access configuration would use the "iframe" type. For instance:

```
<script id="amp-access" type="application/json">
  {
    "type": "iframe",
    "iframeSrc": "https://example.org/access-controller-iframe",
    "iframeVars": [
      "READER_ID",
      "CANONICAL_URL",
      "AMPDOC_URL",
      "SOURCE_URL",
      "DOCUMENT_REFERRER"
    ],
    "defaultResponse": {...}
  }
</script>
```

The instrumentation would normally look like this:

```
/** Implements AccessController interface */
class Controller {
  connect(origin, protocol, config) {
    // Initialize the controller.
    // Important! Ensure that the "origin" is an acceptable value.
  }

  authorize() {
    // Return a promise that will yield the authorization response.
  }

  pingback() {
    // Handle the "impression" event.
  }
}

var iframeApi = new AmpAccessIframeApi(new Controller());
iframeApi.connect();
```

## Connect method

The `connect` method should perform two main tasks:

1. Ensure that the parent document is the right document by checking the origin.
2. Initialize the iframe.

The `config` argument in the `connect` method will contain the original document config with `iframeVars` replace with the map of resolved AMP variables. See [Access URL Variables](../../amp-access.md#access-url-variables) for more details. For instance, for the example above the `config` value could look like this:

```
{
  "type": "iframe",
  "iframeSrc": "https://example.org/access-controller-iframe",
  "iframeVars": {
    "READER_ID": "1234abd456",
    "CANONICAL_URL": "https://example.org/doc1",
    "AMPDOC_URL": "https://example-org.cdn.ampproject.org/doc1.amp",
    "SOURCE_URL": "https://example.org/doc1.amp",
    "DOCUMENT_REFERRER": "https://other.com"
  }
}
```


## Authorize method

The `authorize` method checks whether the user should be able to access this document. It's expected to be in the following format:

```
{
  granted: true/false,
  data: {},
}
```

Where:
 - `granted` field is a true/false boolean field. It returns true when the document is accessible.
 - `data` is an open-ended JSON structure that can be used for access expressions.

Keep in mind that strong timeout and one-behind semantics are observed for this call. If the `authorize()` method does not yield within the 3s timeout, the previously yielded authorization response is used defaulted to the "defaultResponse" field in the configuration. However, the iframe authorization is continued until fully complete and will be available for the next cycle if needed.


## Pingback method

The `pingback` method is optional. If specified, it can implement impression event. The main purpose of this method is metering implementation.
