extensions/amp-image-lightbox/amp-image-lightbox.md, before:

<!---
Copyright 2015 The AMP HTML Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS-IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# <a name="amp-image-lightbox"></a> `amp-image-lightbox`

<table>
  <tr>
    <td width="40%"><strong>Description</strong></td>
    <td>Allows for a “image lightbox” or similar experience where upon user interaction, an image expands to fill the viewport until it is closed again by the user.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td width="40%"><strong>Required Script</strong></td>
    <td><code>&lt;script async custom-element="amp-image-lightbox" src="https://cdn.ampproject.org/v0/amp-image-lightbox-0.1.js">&lt;/script></code></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="col-fourty"><strong><a href="https://www.ampproject.org/docs/guides/responsive/control_layout.html">Supported Layouts</a></strong></td>
    <td>nodisplay</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td width="40%"><strong>Examples</strong></td>
    <td><a href="https://ampbyexample.com/components/amp-image-lightbox/">Annotated code example for amp-image-lightbox</a></td>
  </tr>
</table>

## Behavior

The typical scenario looks like this:
```html
<amp-img
    on="tap:lightbox1"
    role="button"
    tabindex="0"
    src="image1" width=200 height=100></amp-img>
<amp-image-lightbox id="lightbox1" layout="nodisplay"></amp-image-lightbox>
```

The `amp-image-lightbox` is activated using [`on`](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/spec/amp-html-format.md#on) action on the `amp-img` element
by referencing the lightbox element's ID. When activated, it places the image in
the center of the full-viewport lightbox. Notice that any number of images in
the article can use the same `amp-image-lightbox`. The `amp-image-lightbox`
element itself must be empty and have `layout=nodisplay` set.

The `amp-image-lightbox` also can optionally display a caption for the image
at the bottom of the viewport. The caption is discovered as following:
 1. The contents of the `<figcaption>` element when image is in the `figure` tag.
 2. The contents of the element whose ID is specified by the image's
  `aria-describedby` attribute.

Among other things the `amp-image-lightbox` allows the following user manipulations:
zooming, panning, showing/hiding of the description.
Pressing the escape key on the keyboard will close the lightbox.

## Styling

The `amp-image-lightbox` component can be styled with standard CSS. Some of the
properties that can be styled are `background` and `color`.

The `amp-image-lightbox-caption` class is also available to style the caption
section.

## Actions
The `amp-image-lightbox` exposes the following actions you can use [AMP on-syntax to trigger](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/spec/amp-actions-and-events.md):

<table>
  <tr>
    <th>Action</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>(default)</td>
    <td>Opens the image lightbox with the source image being the one that triggered the action.</td>
  </tr>
</table>

### Examples

```html
<amp-img on="tap:lightbox1" role="button" tabindex="0" src="image1" width=200 height=100></amp-img>
<amp-image-lightbox id="lightbox1" layout="nodisplay"></amp-image-lightbox>
```

## Attributes

**layout**

Must be set to `nodisplay`.

## Validation

See [amp-image-lightbox rules](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/extensions/amp-image-lightbox/validator-amp-image-lightbox.protoascii) in the AMP validator specification.

Commit message:

Optional attribute to change text for screen-reader close button

extensions/amp-image-lightbox/amp-image-lightbox.md, after:

<!---
Copyright 2015 The AMP HTML Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS-IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# <a name="amp-image-lightbox"></a> `amp-image-lightbox`

<table>
  <tr>
    <td width="40%"><strong>Description</strong></td>
    <td>Allows for a “image lightbox” or similar experience where upon user interaction, an image expands to fill the viewport until it is closed again by the user.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td width="40%"><strong>Required Script</strong></td>
    <td><code>&lt;script async custom-element="amp-image-lightbox" src="https://cdn.ampproject.org/v0/amp-image-lightbox-0.1.js">&lt;/script></code></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="col-fourty"><strong><a href="https://www.ampproject.org/docs/guides/responsive/control_layout.html">Supported Layouts</a></strong></td>
    <td>nodisplay</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td width="40%"><strong>Examples</strong></td>
    <td><a href="https://ampbyexample.com/components/amp-image-lightbox/">Annotated code example for amp-image-lightbox</a></td>
  </tr>
</table>

## Behavior

The typical scenario looks like this:
```html
<amp-img
    on="tap:lightbox1"
    role="button"
    tabindex="0"
    src="image1" width=200 height=100></amp-img>
<amp-image-lightbox id="lightbox1" layout="nodisplay"></amp-image-lightbox>
```

The `amp-image-lightbox` is activated using [`on`](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/spec/amp-html-format.md#on) action on the `amp-img` element
by referencing the lightbox element's ID. When activated, it places the image in
the center of the full-viewport lightbox. Notice that any number of images in
the article can use the same `amp-image-lightbox`. The `amp-image-lightbox`
element itself must be empty and have `layout=nodisplay` set.

The `amp-image-lightbox` also can optionally display a caption for the image
at the bottom of the viewport. The caption is discovered as following:
 1. The contents of the `<figcaption>` element when image is in the `figure` tag.
 2. The contents of the element whose ID is specified by the image's
  `aria-describedby` attribute.

Among other things the `amp-image-lightbox` allows the following user manipulations:
zooming, panning, showing/hiding of the description.
Pressing the escape key on the keyboard will close the lightbox.

## Styling

The `amp-image-lightbox` component can be styled with standard CSS. Some of the
properties that can be styled are `background` and `color`.

The `amp-image-lightbox-caption` class is also available to style the caption
section.

## Actions
The `amp-image-lightbox` exposes the following actions you can use [AMP on-syntax to trigger](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/spec/amp-actions-and-events.md):

<table>
  <tr>
    <th>Action</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>(default)</td>
    <td>Opens the image lightbox with the source image being the one that triggered the action.</td>
  </tr>
</table>

### Examples

```html
<amp-img on="tap:lightbox1" role="button" tabindex="0" src="image1" width=200 height=100></amp-img>
<amp-image-lightbox id="lightbox1" layout="nodisplay"></amp-image-lightbox>
```

## Attributes

**layout**

Must be set to `nodisplay`.

**data-close-button-aria-label**

Optional string used as ARIA label for close button.

## Validation

See [amp-image-lightbox rules](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/extensions/amp-image-lightbox/validator-amp-image-lightbox.protoascii) in the AMP validator specification.
