ads/adition.md, before:

<!---
Copyright 2015 The AMP HTML Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS-IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# ADITION technologies AG

ADITION technologies AG specialises in the development and distribution of its own adserver technology, which is called ADITION adserving. The ADITION adserver now supports AMP.

Please visit our [website](https://www.adition.com) for more information about us.

## Example

```html
<amp-ad width=300 height=250
    type="adition"
    data-version="1"
    data-wp_id="3470234">
</amp-ad>
```

## Configuration

For semantics of configuration and examples, please sign-in and see ad network [documentation](https://wiki.adition.com/index.php?title=ADITION_technologies_AG:Manual/AMP) or [contact us](https://www.adition.com/en/contact/).

Supported parameters:

- `data-version`
- `data-wp_id`

Commit message:

Ad network docs cleanup + consistency

ads/adition.md, after:

<!---
Copyright 2015 The AMP HTML Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS-IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# ADITION technologies AG

ADITION technologies AG specializes in the development and distribution of its own ad server technology, which is called ADITION ad serving. The ADITION ad server now supports AMP.

For more information, visit [www.adition.com](https://www.adition.com).

## Example

```html
<amp-ad width="300" height="250"
    type="adition"
    data-version="1"
    data-wp_id="3470234">
</amp-ad>
```

## Configuration

For semantics of configuration and examples, sign-in and see the [ADITION documentation](https://wiki.adition.com/index.php?title=ADITION_technologies_AG:Manual/AMP) or [contact ADITION](https://www.adition.com/en/contact/).

Supported parameters:

- `data-version`
- `data-wp_id`
