ads/adverline.md, before:

<!---
Copyright 2015 The AMP HTML Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS-IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# Adverline

## Examples

### Single ad

```html
  <amp-ad width=300 height=250 
    type="adverline" 
    data-id="your_publisher_id" 
    data-plc="your_plc" 
    data-section="your,test,sections" >
  </amp-ad>
```

## Configuration

Required parameters:
- id: site ID
- plc: format ID (unique per page)

Additional parameters:
- section: tag list, separated by commas
- s: dynamic sizing, allowed values: fixed, all, small (default), big

Commit message:

Ad network docs cleanup + consistency

ads/adverline.md, after:

<!---
Copyright 2015 The AMP HTML Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS-IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# Adverline

## Examples

### Single ad

```html
  <amp-ad width=300 height=250 
    type="adverline" 
    data-id="your_publisher_id" 
    data-plc="your_plc" 
    data-section="your,test,sections" >
  </amp-ad>
```

## Configuration

For details on the configuration semantics, please contact the ad network or refer to their documentation. 

### Required parameters

- `data-id`: site ID
- `data-plc`: format ID (unique per page)

### Optional parameters

- `data-section`: tag list, separated by commas
- `data-s`: dynamic sizing, allowed values: fixed, all, small (default), big
