ads/revjet.md, before:

<!---
Copyright 2017 The AMP HTML Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS-IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# RevJet

[RevJet Marketing Creative Platform](https://www.revjet.com/) - Bring sophistication and power to every ad creative
discipline.

## Example

```html
<amp-ad width="300" height="250"
    type="revjet"
    data-tag="tag3777"
    data-key="705"
    data-opts='{"delivery_method": "banner"}'>
</amp-ad>
```

## Configuration

Required parameters:
- `data-tag`
- `data-key`

Optional parameters:
- `data-plc`
- `data-opts`
- `data-params`

Commit message:

Ad network docs cleanup + consistency

ads/revjet.md, after:

<!---
Copyright 2017 The AMP HTML Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS-IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# RevJet

Serves ads from the [RevJet Marketing Creative Platform](https://www.revjet.com/).

## Example

```html
<amp-ad width="300" height="250"
    type="revjet"
    data-tag="tag3777"
    data-key="705"
    data-opts='{"delivery_method": "banner"}'>
</amp-ad>
```

## Configuration

For details on the configuration semantics, please contact the ad network or refer to their documentation. 

### Required parameters

- `data-tag`
- `data-key`

### Optional parameters

- `data-plc`
- `data-opts`
- `data-params`
