extensions/amp-call-tracking/amp-call-tracking.md, before:

<!---
Copyright 2017 The AMP HTML Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS-IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# <a name="amp-call-tracking"></a> `amp-call-tracking`

<table>
  <tr>
    <td width="40%"><strong>Description</strong></td>
    <td>Dynamically replaces a phone number in a hyperlink to enable call
    tracking. Executes a CORS request to substitute the number.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td width="40%"><strong>Availability</strong></td>
    <td>Stable</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td width="40%"><strong>Required Script</strong></td>
    <td><code>&lt;script async custom-element="amp-call-tracking" src="https://cdn.ampproject.org/v0/amp-call-tracking-0.1.js">&lt;/script></code></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="col-fourty"><strong><a href="https://www.ampproject.org/docs/guides/responsive/control_layout.html">Supported Layouts</a></strong></td>
    <td>container, fill, fixed, fixed-height, flex-item, responsive</td>
  </tr>
</table>

## Usage

The `<amp-call-tracking>` tag must wrap a normal anchor tag that hyperlinks a
phone number. This phone number will be replaced with the values provided
by a CORS endpoint.

**Example**

```html
<amp-call-tracking config="https://example.com/calltracking.json">
  <a href="tel:123456789">+1 (23) 456-789</a>
</amp-call-tracking>
```
Note that every unique CORS endpoint will only be called once per page.

## Attributes

**config** (required)

Defines a CORS URL. The URL's protocol must be HTTPS. The response must consist
of a valid JSON object with the following fields:

- `phoneNumber` (required): Specifies the phone number to call when the user clicks the link. 
- `formattedPhoneNumber` (optional): Specifies the phone number to display. If not specified, the value in `phoneNumber` is used.

## Validation

See [amp-call-tracking rules](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/extensions/amp-call-tracking/0.1/validator-amp-call-tracking.protoascii) in the AMP validator specification.

## See also

- [Design doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1UDMYv0f2R9CvMUSBQhxjtkSnC4984t9dJeqwm_8WiAM/edit#heading=h.zha4avn54it8)
- [PR](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/pull/7493)

Commit message:

Add CORS note for amp-call-tracking docs

extensions/amp-call-tracking/amp-call-tracking.md, after:

<!---
Copyright 2017 The AMP HTML Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS-IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# <a name="amp-call-tracking"></a> `amp-call-tracking`

<table>
  <tr>
    <td width="40%"><strong>Description</strong></td>
    <td>Dynamically replaces a phone number in a hyperlink to enable call
    tracking. Executes a CORS request to substitute the number.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td width="40%"><strong>Availability</strong></td>
    <td>Stable</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td width="40%"><strong>Required Script</strong></td>
    <td><code>&lt;script async custom-element="amp-call-tracking" src="https://cdn.ampproject.org/v0/amp-call-tracking-0.1.js">&lt;/script></code></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="col-fourty"><strong><a href="https://www.ampproject.org/docs/guides/responsive/control_layout.html">Supported Layouts</a></strong></td>
    <td>container, fill, fixed, fixed-height, flex-item, responsive</td>
  </tr>
</table>

## Usage

The `<amp-call-tracking>` tag must wrap a normal anchor tag that hyperlinks a
phone number. This phone number will be replaced with the values provided
by a CORS endpoint.

**Example**

```html
<amp-call-tracking config="https://example.com/calltracking.json">
  <a href="tel:123456789">+1 (23) 456-789</a>
</amp-call-tracking>
```
Note that every unique CORS endpoint will only be called once per page.

## Attributes

**config** (required)

Defines a CORS URL. The URL's protocol must be HTTPS. The response must consist
of a valid JSON object with the following fields:

- `phoneNumber` (required): Specifies the phone number to call when the user clicks the link. 
- `formattedPhoneNumber` (optional): Specifies the phone number to display. If not specified, the value in `phoneNumber` is used.

{% call callout('Important', type='caution') %}
Your XHR endpoint needs to follow and implement [CORS Requests in AMP spec](../../spec/amp-cors-requests.md).
{% endcall %}

## Validation

See [amp-call-tracking rules](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/extensions/amp-call-tracking/0.1/validator-amp-call-tracking.protoascii) in the AMP validator specification.

## See also

- [Design doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1UDMYv0f2R9CvMUSBQhxjtkSnC4984t9dJeqwm_8WiAM/edit#heading=h.zha4avn54it8)
- [PR](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/pull/7493)
